---
title: "Why We Added Cyber Essentials Plus To Our Security Practices"
date: "2018-06-15"
author: "Juha Niemi"
---

I'm pleased to announce that Wunder has achieved Cyber Essentials Plus certification, which is a great thing for both our clients and our entire team. Here I'll briefly explain what this cyber security standard is all about and what it means for Wunder.

##### What is Cyber Essentials Plus all about?

Cyber Essentials is a UK government scheme encouraging businesses and organisations to adopt good practice in information security. It’s a common requirement for digital government projects which is why Wunder got Cyber Essentials certified a couple of years ago.

##### We’ve recently gone one step further and achieved Plus level certification, which has the same requirements as the standard version, except this time our compliance was audited by an external auditor.

##### Why have we decided to get ourselves certified?

We decided to get Plus level certification because IT Security is important for us as a digital company. We’re often dealing with business-critical information for our clients, that we must process and store securely, so we take it very seriously.

The whole certification process has also been a good internal exercise. We used it as an opportunity to refine our security policies and processes, which is good, not just for our clients, but for our team too!

##### What does it mean for our clients?

For our clients, the plus level certification gives them the confidence that Wunder takes information security seriously and shows that we're backing up our promises by inviting external auditors to review our processes.

As we're trusted digital partners for many large, security-sensitive businesses and organisations, proving that our infrastructure can securely handle their data also gives them peace of mind.

##### What does it mean for our team?

We didn't just want to get the certification stamp but instead spend time on refining our internal security policies and documentation during the process.

For our team members, the certification gives them assurance that their day-to-day work is up to standard and well-supported by our security team.

We don't expect every member of our team to be a security expert on their own but we do encourage good collaboration with our security team to ensure that best practice is followed across Wunder.

##### Shout out to some special Wunderers

I have to thank our incredible security team for the work they did in getting us certified. A special thanks go to Gatis Spats, who is one of our security team members based in Latvia, for doing a lot of preparation, documentation, and coordination during the certification process.

Thank you also to everyone across Wunder for getting involved in implementing and complying with our updated security practices. Even with over 160 employees in 5 countries, the process couldn’t have gone any smoother so thanks!

##### Final thoughts

Overall, getting certified was a "business as usual" thing for us and a good example of how we continually look for ways to better serve our customers' needs.

Being an agile company, we're always reviewing what we're doing, what works, what doesn't and focusing on continuously improving our processes for the benefit of our team and our clients. This includes our security practices which will surely evolve over time.

Discover Wunder's Drupal security audit services and keep your web platform safe and secure
